Mathematics is used throughout the world in many fields, including science, engineering, medicine and economics. These fields both inspire and make use of new discoveries in mathematics. New mathematics is also created for its own sake, without any particular application in view, a common practice in the branch known as pure mathematics.
মডেল:Col-3
গণিত উইকিপিডিয়ার উদুম-দুৱা বিশ্বকোষহানাত্ত|
ভূগোল
ধ্রুপদ, খেয়াল, ঠুংরী, টপ্পা, গজল, কাওয়ালী, কালোয়াতী
The word "mathematics" (Greek: μαθηματικά) comes from the Greek μάθημα (máthēma), which means learning, study, science, and additionally came to have the narrower and more technical meaning "mathematical study", even in Classical times. Its adjective is μαθηματικός (mathēmatikós), related to learning, or studious, which likewise further came to mean mathematical. In particular, μαθηματική τέχνη (mathēmatikḗ tékhnē), in Latin ars mathematica, meant the mathematical art.
নাচা
A precise definition of the arts can be contentious, but the following areas of activity usually are included:
পয়লা পাতাত আলথক
প্রধান পাতা
এলা বা সংগীত অইলতা কলাতত্তর মেঠেল আহান যেহান সুসংবদ্ধ শব্দ বারো নৈশব্দরে পাজালিয়া মানুর চিত্তবিনোদন করের।
The word "mathematics" is often abbreviated math in the U.S. and Canada and maths in Britain, Ireland and many Commonwealth countries.
মানুর বিজ্ঞান
কম্পিউটার বারো প্রযুক্তি
বিষয় এহানল আলোচনা পুরা নাসে। মনেইলে পুরেইক গজর Edit Tab--গত ক্লিক করিয়া।
The arts is a broad subdivision of culture, composed of many expressive disciplines. In modern usage, it is a term broader than "art", which usually means the visual arts (comprising both fine art and crafts).
Knowledge and use of basic mathematics is widespread, as it has been throughout history. Refinements of basic ideas are visible in ancient mathematical texts originating in ancient Egypt, Mesopotamia and ancient India, with increased rigour introduced by the ancient Greeks. From this point on, the development continued in short bursts until the Renaissance period of the 16th century where mathematical innovations interacted with new scientific discoveries leading to an acceleration in understanding that continues to the present day.
বিভিন্ন প্রকার যান্ত্রীয় সঙ্গীত:
জ্যামিতি
মানু
পশু বিজ্ঞান
