August is named for Augustus Caesar who became Roman consul in this month . [ 1 ] The month has 31 days because Julius Caesar added two days when he created the Julian calendar in 45 BC . August is after July and before September .
April is the fourth month of the year , and comes between March and May . It has 30 days . April begins on the same day of week as July in all years and also January in leap years .
This month was first called Sextilis in Latin , because it was the sixth month in the old Roman calendar . The Roman calendar began in March about 735 BC with Romulus . October was the eighth month . August was the eighth month when January or February were added to the start of the year by King Numa Pompilius about 700 BC . Or , when those two months were moved from the end to the beginning of the year by the decemvirs about 450 BC ( Roman writers disagree ) . In 153 BC January 1 was determined as the beginning of the year .
A is the first letter of the English alphabet . The small letter , a , is used as a lower case vowel . However , the English long a ( ā ) is said as a diphthong of ĕ and y. The same letter of the Greek alphabet is named alpha . Alpha and omega , the last letter of the Greek alphabet , means the beginning and the end . In musical notation , the letter A is the symbol of a note in the scale , below B and above G. In binary numbers , the letter A is 01000001 .
April is a spring month in the Northern Hemisphere and an autumn / fall month in the Southern Hemisphere . In each hemisphere , it is the seasonal equivalent of October in the other .
August is the eighth month of the year in the Gregorian calendar , coming between July and September . It has 31 days , the same number of days as the previous month , July , and is named after Roman Emperor Augustus Caesar .
The earliest the letter ' A ' has appeared was in the Phoenician alphabet 's aleph . [ 1 ] This symbol came from a simple picture of an ox head .
August 's flower is the Gladiolus with the birthstone being peridot . The astrological signs for August are Leo ( July 24 - August 22 ) and Virgo ( August 23 - September 23 ) .
A is the letter that was used to represent a team in an old TV show , The A - Team .
Some people say that art is a product or item that is made with the intention of stimulating the human senses as well as the human mind or spirit .
Art is an activity or creation by people that has importance because of an attraction to the human senses . Art is made when a human expresses himself or herself . Some art is useful in a practical sense , such as a sculptured clay bowl that one can put things in . Many people disagree on how to define art . Many people say people are driven to make art due to their inner creativity . Art includes drawing , painting , sculpting , photography , performance art , dance , music , poetry , prose and theatre .
Art is divided into the plastic arts , where something is made , and the performing arts , where something is done by humans in action . The other division is between pure arts , done for themselves , and practical arts , done for a practical purpose , but with artistic content .
This Phoenician letter helped make the basic blocks of later types of the letter . The Greeks later modified this letter and used it as their letter alpha . The Greek alphabet was used by the Etruscans in northern Italy , and the Romans later modified the Etruscan alphabet for their own language .
August , in either hemisphere , is the seasonal equivalent of February in the other . In the Northern hemisphere it is a summer month and it is a winter month in the Southern hemisphere . In a common year , no other month begins on the same day of the week as August , though in leap years , February starts on the same day as August . August always ends on the same day of the week as November .
Aircraft use propellers to move air over a wing , which allows them to fly .
Air is a mixture of 78.09 % nitrogen , 20.95 % oxygen , 0.93 % argon , 0.039 % carbon dioxide , and small amounts of other gases . [ 1 ] [ 2 ] There is an average of about 1 % water vapour .
April 's flowers are the Sweet Pea and Daisy . Its birthstone is the diamond . The meaning of the diamond is innocence .
Animals need the oxygen in the air to live . In the human body , the lungs give oxygen to the blood , and give back carbon dioxide to the air . Plants need the carbon dioxide in the air to live . They give off oxygen that humans can breathe again .
Air is the Earth 's atmosphere . Air around us is a mixture of many gases and dust particles . It is the clear gas in which living things live and breathe . It has an indefinite shape and volume . It has no color or smell . It has mass and weight . It is a matter as it has mass and weight . Air creates atmosphere pressure . There is no air in the vacuum and cosmos .
Wind is moving air . Air can be polluted by some gases ( such as ozone and carbon monoxide ) , smoke , and ash . This pollution is one of the reasons for global warming , by causing the “ greenhouse effect ” .
It is unclear as to where April got its name . A common theory is that it comes from the Latin word “ aperire ” , meaning “ to open ” , referring to flowers opening in spring . Another theory is that the name could come from Aphrodite , the Greek goddess of love . It was originally the second month in the old Roman Calendar , before the start of the new year was put to January 1 .
The first and broadest sense of “ art ” means “ arrangement ” or “ to arrange . ” In this sense , art is created when someone arranges things found in the world into a new or different design or form ; or when someone arranges colors next to each other in a painting to make an image or just to make a pretty or interesting design .
April comes between March and May , making it the fourth month of the year . It also comes first in the year out of the four months that have 30 days , as June , September and November are later in the year . It starts on the same day of the week as July every year , and starts on the same day as January in leap years . In a common year , April starts on the same day of the week as October of the previous year , and in leap years starts on the same day as May of the previous year . April ends on the same day of the week as December every year . In a common year , it ends on the same day as July of the previous year . In a leap year , it ends on the same day as October of the previous year .
An artwork is normally judged by how much impact it has on people , the amount of people who can relate to it , and how much people appreciate it .
The letter A has six different sounds . It can sound like æ , in the International Phonetic Alphabet , such as the word pad . Other sounds of this letter are in the words father , which developed into another sound , such as in the word ace .
